The miRBase Sequence Database -- Release 8.2
--------------------------------------------

1. SUMMARY

The miRBase Sequence Database provides a searchable online repository
for published microRNA sequences and associated annotation,
functionality previously provided by the microRNA Registry.  miRBase
also contains predicted miRNA target genes in miRBase Targets, and
provides a gene naming and nomenclature function in the miRBase
Registry.

Release 8.2 of the database contains 4039 entries representing hairpin
precursor miRNAs, expressing 3834 mature miRNA products, in primates,
rodents, birds, fish, worms, flies, plants and viruses.  The data are
freely available to all through the web interface at
http://microrna.sanger.ac.uk/sequences/ and in flatfile form from
ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/mirbase/sequences/.


2. CHANGES SINCE RELEASE 8.1

139 new hairpin sequences have been added, with 157 novel mature miRNA
products.  63 entries have been deleted to clean up the zebrafish set.


3. FILES

The following files are available from the above ftp site:

  miRNA.dat     - all entries in (almost) EMBL format
  mature.fa     - mature sequences in fasta format
  hairpin.fa    - predicted miR stem-loop sequences in fasta format
  miRNA.dead    - entries removed from the database
  miRNA.diff    - differences between the current and last release
  miFam.dat     - family classification of related hairpin sequences

The genomes/ directory contains gff files of genome coordinates for,
based on the following genome assemblies:

  aga.gff	- A. gambiae (AGAMP3)
  ame.gff	- A. mellifera (AMEL4.0)
  ath.gff       - A. thaliana (REFSEQ entries)
  bta.gff       - B. taurus (BTAU2.0)
  cbr.gff       - C. briggsae (CB25.AGP8)
  cel.gff       - C. elegans (WormBase WS150)
  cfa.gff	- C. familiaris (CANFAM1.0)
  dme.gff       - D. melanogaster (BDGP4.3)
  dps.gff       - D. pseudoobscura (DPSE2.0)
  dre.gff       - D. rerio (WTSI Zv6)
  fru.gff       - F. rubripes (FUGU4.0)
  gga.gff	- G. gallus (WASHUC1)
  hsa.gff       - H. sapiens (NBCI36)
  mml.gff       - M. mulata (MMUL0.1)
  mmu.gff       - M. musculus (NCBIM36)
  osa.gff       - O. sativa (TIGR4.0)
  ptr.gff       - P. troglodytes (PANTRO1.0)
  rno.gff       - R. norvegicus (RGSC3.4)
  tni.gff       - T. nigroviridis (TETRAODON7)
  xtr.gff       - X. tropicalis (JGI4.1)
  zma.gff       - Z. mays (TIGR AZM5)
  ebv.gff       - Epstein Barr virus (EMBL:AJ507799.2)
  hcmv.gff      - Human cytomegalovirus (EMBL:X17403.1)
  kshv.gff      - Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (EMBL:U75698.1)
  mghv.gff      - Mouse gammaherpesvirus 68 (EMBL:U97553.1)

The database_files/ directory contains dumps of the MySQL relational
database that is used to generate the web pages.  The documentation
for this subset of files is non-existent - use at your peril!

These data are distributed under the same terms as the Rfam database.
Please see ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/databases/Rfam/README for more
information. 


4. HOW TO CITE THE miRNA DATABASE

The miRBase Sequence database is described in the following articles:

miRBase: microRNA sequences, targets and gene nomenclature.
Griffiths-Jones S, Grocock RJ, van Dongen S, Bateman A, Enright AJ.
Nucleic Acids Res., 2006, 34, D140-D144

The miRNA Registry.
Griffiths-Jones S.
Nucleic Acids Res., 2004, 32, D109-D111

Please cite us if you use the data we distribute, but also be sure to
cite the primary sources of miRNA sequences in your work.

Guidelines to miRNA annotation are published here:

A uniform system for microRNA annotation.
Ambros V, Bartel B, Bartel DP, Burge CB, Carrington JC, Chen X, 
Dreyfuss G, Eddy SR, Griffiths-Jones S, Marshall M, Matzke M,
Ruvkun G, Tuschl T. 
RNA, 2003, 9(3), 277-279


5. FEEDBACK

Any queries about data, web services, naming requests or other
feedback should be directed to microrna@sanger.ac.uk.


6. HISTORY

Version       Date       Entries

  1.0         12/02        218
  1.1         01/03        262
  1.2         04/03        295
  1.3         05/03        332
  1.4         07/03        345
  2.0         07/03        506
  2.1         09/03        558
  2.2         11/03        593
  3.0         01/04        719
  3.1         04/04        899
  4.0         07/04       1185
  5.0         09/04       1345
  5.1         12/04       1420
  6.0         04/05       1650
  7.0         06/05       2909
  7.1         10/05       3424
  8.0         02/06       3518
  8.1         05/06       3963
  8.2         07/06       4039
