The microRNA Registry -- Release 5.0
------------------------------------

1. SUMMARY

The microRNA Registry provides a searchable online repository for
published microRNA sequences and associated annotation.  Release 5.0
of the database contains 1345 entries from human, mouse, worm, fly,
chicken, plants and viruses.  The data are freely available to all
through the web interface at
http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Rfam/mirna/ and in flatfile form from
ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/databases/Rfam/miRNA/.


2. CHANGES FROM RELEASE 4.0

165 new sequences have been added with the first inclusions from
D. rerio and D. pseudoobscura.

Every entry now contains tags to describe whether it has been
experimentally verified, or is a predicted homologue of a miRNA
verified in another organism.  Theese are displayed on the website and
are described in /evidence, /experiment and /similarity tags in the
feature table of the miRNA.dat file.

We now provide a list of entries that have been removed from the
database, with brief descriptions and forwarding accessions.  See the
miRNA.dead file.


3. FILES

The following files are available from the above ftp site:

  miRNA.dat     - all entries in (almost) EMBL format
  mature.fa     - mature sequences in fasta format
  hairpin.fa    - predicted miR stem-loop sequences in fasta format
  miRNA.dead    - entries removed from the database
  miRNA.diff    - differences between the current and last release

The genomes/ directory contains gff files of genome coordinates for
animal miRNAs, based on the following genome assemblies:

  hsa.gff       - H. sapiens (NBCI34)
  mmu.gff       - M. musculus (NCBIM33)
  rno.gff       - R. norvegicus (RGSC3.1)
  dre.gff       - D. rerio (WTSI Zv3)
  cel.gff       - C. elegans (WormBase WS130)
  cbr.gff       - C. briggsae (cb25.agp8)
  dme.gff       - D. melanogaster (BDGP3.1)
  dps.gff       - D. pseudoobscura (HGSC1)
  ath.gff       - A. thaliana (RefSeq entries)
  osa.gff       - O. sativa (AAAA01000000)
  vrl.gff       - Viruses (currently only EBV)

You probably want the gff files (see
http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/formats/GFF/), but some of these data
are also available in BED format (see
http://genome.ucsc.edu/goldenPath/help/customTrack.html#BED).  The BED
format data is principally exchanged with the UCSC browser people and
thus has a couple of quirks: The score field (the 5th field) is faked
to choose colours for display in the UCSC browser, and the coordinates
have zero based start and 1 based end - the effect of the latter is
that you probably want to add one to all the start positions.  Use the
gff format data to avoid these issues.

The database_files/ directory contains dumps of the MySQL relational
database that is used to generate the web pages.  The documentation
for this subset of files is non-existent - use at your peril!

These data are distributed under the same terms as the Rfam database.
Please see ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/databases/Rfam/README for more
information. 


4. HOW TO CITE THE miRNA REGISTRY

The miRNA Registry is described in the following short article:

The miRNA Registry.
Griffiths-Jones S.
Nucleic Acids Res., 2004, 32, Database issue, D109-D111

Please cite us if you use the data we distribute, but also be sure to
cite the primary sources of miRNA sequences in your work.

Guidelines to miRNA annotation are published here:

A uniform system for microRNA annotation.
Ambros V, Bartel B, Bartel DP, Burge CB, Carrington JC, Chen X, 
Dreyfuss G, Eddy SR, Griffiths-Jones S, Marshall M, Matzke M,
Ruvkun G, Tuschl T. 
RNA, 2003, 9(3), 277-279


5. FEEDBACK

Any queries about data, web services, naming requests or other
feedback should be directed to microrna@sanger.ac.uk.


6. HISTORY

Version       Date       Entries

  1.0         12/02        218
  1.1         01/03        262
  1.2         04/03        295
  1.3         05/03        332
  1.4         07/03        345
  2.0         07/03        506
  2.1         09/03        558
  2.2         11/03        593
  3.0         01/04        719
  3.1         04/04        899
  4.0         07/04       1185
  5.0         09/04       1345
