The microRNA Registry -- Release 6.0
------------------------------------

1. SUMMARY

The microRNA Registry provides a searchable online repository for
published microRNA sequences and associated annotation.  Release 6.0
of the database contains 1650 entries from human, mouse, rat, chicken,
worm, fly, plants and viruses.  The data are freely available to all
through the web interface at
http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/Rfam/mirna/ and in flatfile form from
ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/databases/Rfam/miRNA/.


2. CHANGES FROM RELEASE 5.1

286 new sequences have been added with the first inclusions from
Xenopus laevis, Sorghum bicolor, Canis familiaris, Anopheles gambiae,
Apis mellifera, Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, mouse
gammaherpes virus and human cytomegalovirus.

Stable database accessions have been assigned to all mature sequences
in the database.  These accessions will help track changes between
releases and are shown in the feature table in the following format:

	FT   miRNA           17..38
	FT                   /product="cel-let-7"
	FT                   /accession="MIMAT0000001"

The fasta format files mature.fa and hairpin.fa include the sequence
accessions in the header lines:

	>cel-let-7 MI0000001 Caenorhabditis elegans let-7 stem-loop
	UACACUGUGGAUCCGGUGAGGUAGUAGGUUGUAUAGUUUGGAAUAUUACCACCGGUGAAC
	UAUGCAAUUUUCUACCUUACCGGAGACAGAACUCUUCGA

	>cel-let-7 MIMAT0000001 Caenorhabditis elegans let-7
	UGAGGUAGUAGGUUGUAUAGUU


3. FILES

The following files are available from the above ftp site:

  miRNA.dat     - all entries in (almost) EMBL format
  mature.fa     - mature sequences in fasta format
  hairpin.fa    - predicted miR stem-loop sequences in fasta format
  miRNA.dead    - entries removed from the database
  miRNA.diff    - differences between the current and last release

The genomes/ directory contains gff files of genome coordinates for,
based on the following genome assemblies:

  aga.gff	- A. gambiae (MOZ2a)
  ame.gff	- A. mellifera (AMEL1.1)
  ath.gff       - A. thaliana (RefSeq entries)
  cbr.gff       - C. briggsae (cb25.agp8)
  cel.gff       - C. elegans (WormBase WS130)
  cfa.gff	- C. familiaris (BROADD1)
  dme.gff       - D. melanogaster (BDGP3.2)
  dps.gff       - D. pseudoobscura (HGSC1)
  dre.gff       - D. rerio (WTSI Zv4)
  gga.gff	- G. gallus (WASHUC1)
  hsa.gff       - H. sapiens (NBCI35)
  mmu.gff       - M. musculus (NCBIM33)
  osa.gff       - O. sativa (TIGR 3.0)
  rno.gff       - R. norvegicus (RGSC3.4)
  zma.gff       - Z. mays (TIGR AZM4)

The database_files/ directory contains dumps of the MySQL relational
database that is used to generate the web pages.  The documentation
for this subset of files is non-existent - use at your peril!

These data are distributed under the same terms as the Rfam database.
Please see ftp://ftp.sanger.ac.uk/pub/databases/Rfam/README for more
information. 


4. HOW TO CITE THE miRNA REGISTRY

The miRNA Registry is described in the following short article:

The miRNA Registry.
Griffiths-Jones S.
Nucleic Acids Res., 2004, 32, Database issue, D109-D111

Please cite us if you use the data we distribute, but also be sure to
cite the primary sources of miRNA sequences in your work.

Guidelines to miRNA annotation are published here:

A uniform system for microRNA annotation.
Ambros V, Bartel B, Bartel DP, Burge CB, Carrington JC, Chen X, 
Dreyfuss G, Eddy SR, Griffiths-Jones S, Marshall M, Matzke M,
Ruvkun G, Tuschl T. 
RNA, 2003, 9(3), 277-279


5. FEEDBACK

Any queries about data, web services, naming requests or other
feedback should be directed to microrna@sanger.ac.uk.


6. HISTORY

Version       Date       Entries

  1.0         12/02        218
  1.1         01/03        262
  1.2         04/03        295
  1.3         05/03        332
  1.4         07/03        345
  2.0         07/03        506
  2.1         09/03        558
  2.2         11/03        593
  3.0         01/04        719
  3.1         04/04        899
  4.0         07/04       1185
  5.0         09/04       1345
  5.1         12/04       1420
  6.0         04/05       1650
